# DiscoGeM
 
This repository contains the DiscoGeM corpus: A Crowdsourced Corpus of Genre-Mixed Inter-Sentential Implicit Discourse Relations annotated in PDTB3-style.

 ## DiscoGeM 1.0
 
DiscoGeM 1.0 is a crowdsourced corpus of 6,505 implicit discourse relations from different genres in English. It contains data from political speech (Europarl), literature, and encyclopedic (Wikipedia) texts. It has now been updated with annotations of an additional set of 300 implicit relations from the Penn Discourse Treebank (data stemming from newspaper text), to allow for a comparison between the methodologies.

Each instance in DiscoGeM was annotated by 10 crowd workers, using a discourse connective insertion paradigm (see Yung et al., 2019; Scholman et al., 2022). In addition to the annotated dataset, we also make available the dataset with all annotator-level insertions and annotator quality scores.

The train/dev/test split indicated by the 'split' column was used in Yung et al., 2022. An alternative 10-fold cross-validation split is also provided.

A subset of the data was also annotated using a Question-Answer annotation paradigm (see Pyatkin et al., 2023). These annotations can be found in the folder QADiscourse_annotations.

 ## DiscoGeM 1.5

DiscoGeM 1.5 is the re-annotation of the English data in DiscoGeM 1.0 using the forced-choice connective insertion approach employed in DiscoGeM 2.0, in contrast to the two-step free connective insertion method of DiscoGeM 1.0. 3223 annotations have been conducted by the same workers on the same items using both methods, with a three-year gap in between, enabling a direct comparison of annotation approaches.

 ## DiscoGeM 2.0

 DiscoGeM 2.0 is a crowdsourced, parallel corpus of 12,834 implicit discourse relations, with English, German, French and Czech data.  It contains data from Europarl and literature. The English annotation comes from DiscoGeM 1.0 and the German, French and Czech data comes from the translation of the English data, or the originals of the translated English data.

 ***Europarl***
Original / data lang  | EN  | DE   | FR  | CS 
----------------------|-----|------|-----|----
English               | 418 | 417  | 414 | -
German                | 701 | 701  | -   | -
French                | 739 | -    | 727 | -
Czezh                 | 700 | -    |  -  | 697
**Subtotal**        | **2558** | **1118**| **1141**| **697**
Unknown               | 229 | - | - | -

 ***Literature***
Original / data lang  | EN  | DE   | FR  | CS 
----------------------|-----|------|-----|----
English               | 800 | 787  | 758 | 777
German                | 800 | 683  | -   | -
French                | 780 | -    | 729 | -
Czezh                 | 680 | -    |  -  | 526
**Subtotal**        | **3060** | **1470**| **1487**| **1303**

Each instance was annotated by 10 crowd workers who are native speakers of the language, using an approach adapted from the discourse connective insertion task used in DiscoGeM 1.0 (see Yung et al, 2024). The data includes the crowdsourced label distributions, aggregated labels (by majority voting, Dawid-Skene, MACE, etc), as well as annotator-level information.

## Synthetic Data

The synthetic data are generated by three LLMs, including: Mistral-7B-Instruct-v 0.2, Llama3.1 8B-Instruct and gemma2 9B, prompted by a given Arg1 and a discourse relation label (DR-prompt) or a discourse connective (DC-prompt). The Arg1 are sampled from similar sources of data as DiscoGeM, namely the Europarl Direct Corpus (Koehn, 2005; Cartoni and Meyer, 2012), Wikipedia, and the Opus Book Corpus (Tiedemann, 2012). The data in this repository are the output from the LLMs before any screening.

Contrary to the improvements reported in previ- ous studies (Omura et al 2024), our results did not confirm the benefits of synthetic data augmentation for IDRR in a cross-domain setting. For details, please refer to Yung et al, 2025b.

 ## Reference
 If you use this resource, please consider citing:
 
        @inproceedings{scholman2022DiscoGeM,
           title = "DiscoGeM: A Crowdsourced Corpus of Genre-Mixed Implicit Discourse Relations",
           author = "Scholman, Merel C. J.  and
           Dong, Tianai and
           Yung, Frances and
           Demberg, Vera",
           booktitle = "Proceedings of the Thirteenth International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation ({LREC}'22)",
           month = June,
           year = "2022",
           address = "Marseille, France",
           publisher = "European Language Resources Association (ELRA)"
       }

       @inproceedings{yung2024DiscoGeM,
           title = "DiscoGeM 2.0: A Parallel Corpus of English, German, French and Czech implicit discourse relations",
           author = "Yung, Frances  and
           Scholman, Merel C. J. and
           Zikanova, Sarka and
           Demberg, Vera",
           booktitle = "Proceedings of the Joint International Conference on Computational Linguistics, Language Resources and Evaluation ({LREC-COLING}'24)",
           month = May,
           year = "2024",
           address = "Turin, Italy",
           publisher = "European Language Resources Association (ELRA) and International Committee on Computational Linguistics (ICCL)"
       }

       @inproceedings{yung-demberg-2025-crowdsourcing,
           title = "On Crowdsourcing Task Design for Discourse Relation Annotation",
           author = "Yung, Frances  and
           Demberg, Vera",
           booktitle = "Proceedings of the 1st Workshop on Context and Meaning—Navigating Disagreements in NLP Annotations",
           month = jan,
           year = "2025",
           address = "Abu Dhabi, UAE",
           publisher = "International Conference on Computational Linguistics",
       }

       @inproceedings{yung2025synthetic,
           title = "Synthetic Data Augmentation for Cross-domain Implicit Discourse Relation Recognition",
           author = "Yung, Frances  and
           Suresh, Varsha and
           Reza, Zaynab and
           Ahmad, Mansoor Ahmad and
           Demberg, Vera",
           booktitle = "Proceedings of the 26th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue",
           month = aug,
           year = "2025",
           address = "Avignon, France",
           publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
       }




## Related work

<a id="1">[1]</a> 
Pyatkin, V., Yung, F., Scholman, M.C.J., Dagan, I., Tsarfaty, R., & Demberg, V. (2023). 
Design Choices for Crowdsourcing Implicit Discourse Relations: Revealing the Biases introduced by Task Design. 
TACL.

<a id="1">[2]</a> 
Scholman, M.C.J., Pyatkin, V., Yung, F., Dagan, I., Tsarfaty, R., & Demberg, V. (2022).
Design Choices in Crowdsourcing Discourse Relation Annotations: The Effect of Worker Selection and Training. 
Proceedings of the 13th International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC 22), Marseille, France.

<a id="1">[3]</a>
Yung, F., Anuranjana, K., Scholman, M.C.J., Demberg, V (2022).
Label distributions help implicit discourse relation classification.
Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Computational Approaches to Discourse (CODI 22), Gyeongju, Republic of Korea.

<a id="1">[4]</a> 
Yung, F., Demberg, V., & Scholman, M.C.J. (2019). 
Crowdsourcing discourse relation annotations by a two-step connective insertion task. 
Proceedings of the 13th Linguistic Annotation Workshop, Florence, Italy.
